# HCI-Project
Project repository for the course "Artificial Intelligence for Visual Perception in Human-Computer Interface and Human-Robot interactions" helded in the master degree course of "Artifial Intelligence &amp; Robotics" @ Sapienza University of Rome.

## Abstract
Patient motion during the acquisition of magnetic resonance images (MRI) is an important issue for this imaging technique: it could lead to unwanted artefacts in the MR scan that can affect the interpretability of the acquired image, possibly leading a wrong medical analysis. In this work, i devised a method to recover a clear image, starting from a motion-corrupted one, through the use of machine learning algorithms such as convolutional neural networks (CNNs). Motion-corrupted images are obtained starting from a dataset of real and clean scans in which motion is simulated as a sequence of random 3D rigid movements, combined together in the k-space to obtain the final corrupted image. Augmenting the dataset with artefacted data is useful to train a model that can generalise better and be robust even in presence of real artefacts. The implemented neural network is able to correct motion artefacts.

## Project
In this work i show how, through the use of deep learning algorithms, is possible to recover a clean MR image starting from a motion-corrupted one. The architecture used to accomplish the task is an autoencoder, which uses encoders, that learn to compress the relevant information inside the corrupted images, discarding the corruption, and decoders, that learn to reconstruct a clean image. Two loss functions were tested: Mean Squared Error and Percptual loss, which requires the use of the pre-trained network VGG-16. The differences in the results obtained with them is not that great, however, observing the quality of the images, the corrected slices obtained when using the Perceptual loss are more defined, with details more clear and less blurred. Also dilated convolutions were tested in the Convolutional layers of both encoders and decoders, however the results achieved in this case are worse and not satisfying compared to the previous case. The motion-correction task was accomplished and the algorithm can be concretely used in real world applications.

## [Presentation](https://github.com/kevinmunda/HCI-Project/blob/main/Presentation.pptx)
## [Report](https://github.com/kevinmunda/HCI-Project/blob/main/Deep%20Learning%20Techniques%20for%20Image%20Acquisition%20and%20Motion%20Removal.pdf)
## [Notebook](https://github.com/kevinmunda/HCI-Project/blob/main/EAI_Project.ipynb)
